docs: Add docs on module usage (#870)
ministryofjustice/hmpps-book-secure-move-frontend: app/README.md

# App modules

App modules are subsections of the main site, dealing with a specific area , e.g locations or moves. They are constructed using Express routers.

They can have a variety of different parts, in either a root file, or a folder with multiple files, and exposed via an `index.js` in the folder.

- controllers

>   - Express

Reviewer: Could these maybe use an emdash after the _thing_ instead of a nested list? 

Might be easier to scan the _things_ as a list of bullets with a description after. Semantically they also feel like the same item rather than a child item.

We did something similar in the [framework docs](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/hmpps-book-secure-move-frameworks/tree/master/frameworks/person-escort-record#step-options)

- constants
  - Predefined default settings for a module, including routing paths, actions, and other defaults
- fields
  - Form-wizard field definitions
- middleware
  - Express middleware for the module, rendering against the views
- steps
  - Form-wizard step definitions
- validators
  - Form-wizard field validator functions
- views
  - Nunjucks templates
- index (routing)
  - Main entrypoint for the module, tying together all the parts of the module in the form of an Express router

## Index / Routing Setup

> ### params middleware

Reviewer: We could link to the express docs for [param middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/api.html#router.param) and [shared middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/api.html#router.use) (below) to explain their usage in more depth.

- set req vars
  - **setDateRange**
    - req.period
    - req.dateRange
- redirect

### shared middleware

- **saveUrl**

### routing middleware

#### types

- redirects
- simple routes
- routes with form-wizard
- sub-routers
- arrays of grouped middleware
  - collections middleware (`setActions`,`setContext`,`setPagination`)
  - data setup, retrieval and transformation middleware (`setBody` `setFilter` `setResults`)

#### router.`HTTP_METHOD`

##### Generic middleware

- **path/with/:tokens**
- **protectRoute**
- redirects

##### Collections setup

- setActions
- setContext
  - permission
  - text
  - href
- setPagination

##### Data setup, retrieval and transformation

- setBody*Something*

>   - sets `req.body.something`

Reviewer 2: sets `req.body.requested`...

Dependent on the *Something* though, a different serivce method gets invoked with the params set up thusly

Author: Reworked this section based upon slack / other PR comments

    - structure includes `status`, `sortBy`, `sortDirection`, `[locationType]`
- set*Something*Filters
  - calls services
  - uses body prop
  - sets `req.filter`
- set*Something*Results
  - calls services
  - uses body prop

>   - sets `req.resultsSomething` or `req.resultsSomethingAsTable`

Reviewer 2: `req.result*Something*` or `req.results<Something>` to make it more obvious?

Author: Reworked this section based upon slack / other PR comments

##### Render
- `render` method from controller, e.g. `home/controllers.js:dashboard`
  - `res.render` with template e.g. `home/dashboard`

>     - actions

Reviewer: Might be worth being more generic in this case and referring to the [express render docs](https://expressjs.com/en/api.html#res.render) and just document that this is called with any locals required for that view.

    - context
    - dateRange
    - filter
    - pagination
    - period
    - resultsVars

# Questions

> - what is the difference between setBody, setFilter and setResults

Reviewer 2: Did I manage to answer this ok on Slack the other day?

Reviewer: This is the current structure:

`setBody` — used to build the shared body sent to the service calls to generate the filter and the results. Contains a shared query for date filters, location filters, etc. Attached result to `req.body[type]`

`setFilter` — builds the filter component for that collection. Uses `req.body[type]` as a base and overrides the filter based on the desired counts to retrieve, usually status. Attached the result as a filter component to `req.filter`.

`setResults` — makes a call to the relevant service method to return the results that should be displayed for the current view. Uses `req.body[type]` which is based on the current params and filters in the URL. Also responsible for calling the relevant presenter for this resource type and sets the results as `req.resultsAsTable` or `req.resultsAsCards` to be used by the controller/template.

Author: Reworked this section based upon slack / other PR comments

> - what is context? It's used by Express and by Nunjucks, are they exactly the same thing?

Reviewer: [Context](https://www.i18next.com/translation-function/context) is a concept used by the i18n library [i18n](https://www.i18next.com/).

We use it in certain circumstances to change the wording we need to use based on particular contexts within the application. The collection is one example, by passing the type as the context we can change the text to be more specific to something like a "single request" or "allocation" but use a single key within the template.

# App modules

App modules are subsections of the main site, dealing with a specific area , e.g locations or moves. They are constructed using [Express](https://expressjs.com) [routers](https://expressjs.com/en/api.html#router), [param middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/api.html#router.param) and [shared middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/api.html#router.use).

They can have a variety of different parts, in either a root file, or a folder with multiple files, and exposed via an `index.js` in the folder.

- `controllers` - Express controllers
- `constants` - Predefined default settings for a module, including routing paths, actions, and other defaults
- `fields` - Form-wizard field definitions
- `middleware` - Express middleware for the module, rendering against the views
- `steps` - Form-wizard step definitions
- `validators` - Form-wizard field validator functions

> - `views` - Nunjucks templates`

Reviewer: Rogue backtick?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `views` - Nunjucks templates
```

## Routing

The index file of each app module is used to setup any routes or subroutes that this module will serve through Express. The [standard Express middleware pattern](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/using-middleware.html) is used here with a variety of middleware using and transforming the request object, with a final method that will usually render content.

## Middleware

There are a variety of generic middleware that are provided from within the [common](../common/middleware) folder

## Common Middleware

- `permissions` - secures route access based upon user permissions
- `setLocations` - sets locations on the current request
- `setPrimaryNaviation` - sets the primaryNavigation based upon the current users permissions
- `setUser` - sets the user on the current request from the session

### Common Collections Middleware

- `redirectDefaultQuery` - redirect with a default query if provided
- `redirectView` - redirect to a path of the format `timePeriod/date/location/view?query`
- `setActions` - sets potential actions during the routing setup phase

> - `setContext` - sets the `context` used by [i18n]() to specific content within a generalised template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `setContext` - sets the `context` used by [i18next](https://www.i18next.com/translation-function/context) to specific content within a generalised template
```

- `setDateRange` - sets the `dateRange` used by the weekly views
- `setPagination` - sets the pagination object used for day/week pagination. Note: This is not for numeric pagination of table data.

> ## Orchestration

Author: I'm not really happy with this name, but I couldn't think of another grouping for these three kinds of middleware

There are also three specific kinds of orchestration middleware used by this application to more clearly orchestrate fetching and arranging of data. When multiple instances of this middleware are used, they share data through the `req.body[moduleName]` property.

> - `setBody` — used to build the shared body data that is used to call service(s) which then supplies data for the filter and the results. Contains a shared query for date filters, location filters, etc. Attaches data to `req.body[moduleName]`.

Author: @solidgoldpig FYI These are mostly @teneightfive 's words, slightly reworded. If there's anything that you think needs clearing up, let me know.

- `setFilter` — builds the filter component for collection modules. Uses `req.body[moduleName]` as a base and overrides the filter based on the desired counts to retrieve - usually status. Attaches data as a filter component to `req.filter`.
- `setResults` — makes a call to the relevant service method to return the results that should be displayed for the current view. Can use `req.body[moduleName]` which is based on the current params and filters in the URL. If required for the view it will also call the relevant [presenter]('../common/presenters') for this resource type and sets the results as `req.resultsAsTable` or `req.resultsAsCards` to be used by the controller/template.

> ## General notes

Author: Are there any other gotchas we can think of?
